docs/en/sql-reference/functions/random-functions.md, before:

---
toc_priority: 51
toc_title: Pseudo-Random Numbers
---

# Functions for Generating Pseudo-Random Numbers {#functions-for-generating-pseudo-random-numbers}

All the functions accept zero arguments or one argument. If an argument is passed, it can be any type, and its value is not used for anything. The only purpose of this argument is to prevent common subexpression elimination, so that two different instances of the same function return different columns with different random numbers.

!!! note "Note"
    Non-cryptographic generators of pseudo-random numbers are used.

## rand, rand32 {#rand}

Returns a pseudo-random UInt32 number, evenly distributed among all UInt32-type numbers.

Uses a linear congruential generator.

## rand64 {#rand64}

Returns a pseudo-random UInt64 number, evenly distributed among all UInt64-type numbers.

Uses a linear congruential generator.

## randConstant {#randconstant}

Produces a constant column with a random value.

**Syntax**

``` sql
randConstant([x])
```

**Arguments**

-   `x` — [Expression](../../sql-reference/syntax.md#syntax-expressions) resulting in any of the [supported data types](../../sql-reference/data-types/index.md#data_types). The resulting value is discarded, but the expression itself if used for bypassing [common subexpression elimination](../../sql-reference/functions/index.md#common-subexpression-elimination) if the function is called multiple times in one query. Optional parameter.

**Returned value**

-   Pseudo-random number.

Type: [UInt32](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT rand(), rand(1), rand(number), randConstant(), randConstant(1), randConstant(number)
FROM numbers(3)
```

Result:

``` text
┌─────rand()─┬────rand(1)─┬─rand(number)─┬─randConstant()─┬─randConstant(1)─┬─randConstant(number)─┐
│ 3047369878 │ 4132449925 │   4044508545 │     2740811946 │      4229401477 │           1924032898 │
│ 2938880146 │ 1267722397 │   4154983056 │     2740811946 │      4229401477 │           1924032898 │
│  956619638 │ 4238287282 │   1104342490 │     2740811946 │      4229401477 │           1924032898 │
└────────────┴────────────┴──────────────┴────────────────┴─────────────────┴──────────────────────┘
```

# Random Functions for Working with Strings {#random-functions-for-working-with-strings}

## randomString {#random-string}

## randomFixedString {#random-fixed-string}

## randomPrintableASCII {#random-printable-ascii}

## randomStringUTF8 {#random-string-utf8}

## fuzzBits {#fuzzbits}

**Syntax**

``` sql
fuzzBits([s], [prob])
```

Inverts bits of `s`, each with probability `prob`.

**Arguments**
- `s` - `String` or `FixedString`
- `prob` - constant `Float32/64`

**Returned value**
Fuzzed string with same as s type.

**Example**

``` sql
SELECT fuzzBits(materialize('abacaba'), 0.1)
FROM numbers(3)
```

\`\`\` text
┌─fuzzBits(materialize(‘abacaba’), 0.1)─┐
│ abaaaja │
│ a\*cjab+ │
│ aeca2A │
└───────────────────────────────────────┘

Commit message:

[CH-236] support split/pmod/factorial/rand/ascii/concat_ws function  (#237)
* implement function ascii

* implement function ascii

* Update src/Functions/ascii.cpp

Co-authored-by: Vladimir C <vdimir@clickhouse.com>

* Update src/Functions/ascii.cpp

Co-authored-by: Vladimir C <vdimir@clickhouse.com>

* merge master and fix conflict

* modify as requested

* change as requested

* register function ascii

* add mapping for ascii

* enable limits for functions using FunctionTokens

* fix comment

* reset to original solution

* rename  alphaTokens to SplitByAlphaImpl

* improve doc and uts

* fix bug

* add mapping for splitByRegexp

* add function positive_modulo

* add ducument

* fix type deduction of positive_modulo

* add function positive_modulo

* add ducument

* fix type deduction of positive_modulo

* add notice

* fix typo

* fix typo

* fix bug

* fix ub error

* fix ub error

* pmod: compatibility with Spark, better documentation

* register function pmod

* add mapping for pmod

* add function factorial

* add missed file

* update as request

* extract test of function factorial

* modify return type from Int64 to UInt64

* fix doc

* fix doc

* register function factorial

* add mapping for factorial

* add function canonicalRand

* add perf test

* revert rand.xml

* register function canonicalRand

* add mapping for canonicalRand

* Add function concatWs

* fix code style

* rename function

* rename files

* add alias concat_ws

* revert CMakeLists

* register function concat_ws

* add mapping for concat_ws

Co-authored-by: Vladimir C <vdimir@clickhouse.com>
Co-authored-by: Alexey Milovidov <milovidov@clickhouse.com>

docs/en/sql-reference/functions/random-functions.md, after:

---
toc_priority: 51
toc_title: Pseudo-Random Numbers
---

# Functions for Generating Pseudo-Random Numbers {#functions-for-generating-pseudo-random-numbers}

All the functions accept zero arguments or one argument. If an argument is passed, it can be any type, and its value is not used for anything. The only purpose of this argument is to prevent common subexpression elimination, so that two different instances of the same function return different columns with different random numbers.

!!! note "Note"
    Non-cryptographic generators of pseudo-random numbers are used.

## rand, rand32 {#rand}

Returns a pseudo-random UInt32 number, evenly distributed among all UInt32-type numbers.

Uses a linear congruential generator.

## rand64 {#rand64}

Returns a pseudo-random UInt64 number, evenly distributed among all UInt64-type numbers.

Uses a linear congruential generator.

## canonicalRand
The function generates pseudo random results with independent and identically distributed uniformly distributed values in [0, 1).

Non-deterministic. Return type is Float64.

## randConstant {#randconstant}

Produces a constant column with a random value.

**Syntax**

``` sql
randConstant([x])
```

**Arguments**

-   `x` — [Expression](../../sql-reference/syntax.md#syntax-expressions) resulting in any of the [supported data types](../../sql-reference/data-types/index.md#data_types). The resulting value is discarded, but the expression itself if used for bypassing [common subexpression elimination](../../sql-reference/functions/index.md#common-subexpression-elimination) if the function is called multiple times in one query. Optional parameter.

**Returned value**

-   Pseudo-random number.

Type: [UInt32](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT rand(), rand(1), rand(number), randConstant(), randConstant(1), randConstant(number)
FROM numbers(3)
```

Result:

``` text
┌─────rand()─┬────rand(1)─┬─rand(number)─┬─randConstant()─┬─randConstant(1)─┬─randConstant(number)─┐
│ 3047369878 │ 4132449925 │   4044508545 │     2740811946 │      4229401477 │           1924032898 │
│ 2938880146 │ 1267722397 │   4154983056 │     2740811946 │      4229401477 │           1924032898 │
│  956619638 │ 4238287282 │   1104342490 │     2740811946 │      4229401477 │           1924032898 │
└────────────┴────────────┴──────────────┴────────────────┴─────────────────┴──────────────────────┘
```

# Random Functions for Working with Strings {#random-functions-for-working-with-strings}

## randomString {#random-string}

## randomFixedString {#random-fixed-string}

## randomPrintableASCII {#random-printable-ascii}

## randomStringUTF8 {#random-string-utf8}

## fuzzBits {#fuzzbits}

**Syntax**

``` sql
fuzzBits([s], [prob])
```

Inverts bits of `s`, each with probability `prob`.

**Arguments**
- `s` - `String` or `FixedString`
- `prob` - constant `Float32/64`

**Returned value**
Fuzzed string with same as s type.

**Example**

``` sql
SELECT fuzzBits(materialize('abacaba'), 0.1)
FROM numbers(3)
```

\`\`\` text
┌─fuzzBits(materialize(‘abacaba’), 0.1)─┐
│ abaaaja │
│ a\*cjab+ │
│ aeca2A │
└───────────────────────────────────────┘
